>> Melkey: I think it's pretty
cool that we have going on here,
we have our back end, and
we have connection to this database.
Well, that's actually not true, we don't
have true connection to this database, but
we do have a running database, all right.
So we're gonna go ahead and open up
another tab, because we should have,
depending on what your
style is on my personal
machine I have three tabs occupied.
One with the editor, one with go dot
main running, and then one with Docker.
And then I open up this new one so
I can keep importing stuff and exploring.
When like I just said, we have Docker
running, we have a database connected but
this database is just,
there's just chilling.
It's just it has no affiliation
to our project whatsoever,
all because it's defined in the same
project route, it doesn't matter.
So here we're going to connect
to that database, all right.
And for us to connect to that database,
we're gonna actually introduce
a new package into our our project.
And it's essentially a driver,
it's a Postgres QL driver,
the one that I recommend is by Jack C,
and it is called pgx, okay?
So it is a Postgres SQL driver and
toolkit for go,
it has about 11.4000 get up stars.
It is relatively actively maintained,
you can see a couple weeks ago,
also written in Go.
It's a pretty powerful driver
that we are going to install and
use in our project here.
Quick side note, this particular driver,
this package, if you are on an LSP go PLS.
It sometimes bugs out and
asks you to reinstall it, or
install a particular version of
it if you put in other packages.
I think we'll see this in this course
here, it's not a deal breaker,
it's just very picky and
a bit opinionated.
But yeah, pgx, what we're going to use
against just going to be our driver.
So here we're gonna use version four,
so we're gonna do,
go get github.com/jackC/pgx/v4/STD lib,
standard library.
>> Melkey: Going back to our
editor within the store folder,
add a new file, and
this file is going to be called database.
So database.go and
we're actually gonna write stuff inside,
so we can declare our package store.
And the purpose of this particular
file is going to allow us to
connect to our running
database right here, okay?
The way we're gonna do this create
a new function, so func open.
And func open is going to
not take any argument,
but is going to return a type sql.db, and
an error to bring in the SQL package.
It's standard library import,
you can do database slash SQL
>> Melkey: And
then here we're going to
basically instantiate a database
struct that we're going to use
throughout our application,
so here we can type db err
is going to be sql.open.
This whole argument here is the connection
string we're but the very first argument
is going to be the driver that we're
using, and we just installed pgx.
So here we can do pgx, and now this is
gonna be an interesting property in Go.
Like I said, if I do FMT,
the compiler yells at me, you don't,
you're not using FMT, right?
But I could just do this, because
there are certain cases like the one
we're going to see now with JAXI pgx where
we don't implicitly use the library.
But we are using, or we don't explicitly
use the library, but we are implicitly
using it via this pgx connection
string here in the SQL open method.
So here we're going to bring in
github.com/jackC/pgx/v4/STD lib,
it's gonna yell at us and
in here we're going to just ignore that.
>> Melkey: Let me just go close all this.
>> Melkey: Yeah, there you go, so it just
bugs out, so I have to do an LSP restart,
I'm wondering if anyone else,
does anyone else get that or you guys,
it's kosher on your side?
Good, yeah, so depending for me, on U of
M with my configuration, it does bug out,
but it Is working as expected,
but thank you for being patient.
Okay, next is gonna be
the actual connection string, so
here we'll do host equals,
it's gonna be local host, okay?
The user is going to be Postgres,
the password is going to be Postgres,
the db name is going to be Postgres, okay?
And in here we'll do port 5432, the one
we specified in our Docker compose file,
and then we'll just add
SSL mode equals disable.
>> Melkey: I'll zoom out
just a little bit so you,
you can see the entirety of
the connection string and
make sure I don't have any typos.
Host localhost, user Postgres,
password Postgres, dbname Postgres,
port 5432 and SSL mode disabled.
Next up, let's check that error,
so if error does not equal to nil,
what we're going to do is return nil.
And here we're going to do format.error f,
and here we'll say db,
open method modulo W and
pass in that error, right?
So another format specify
that we haven't seen before.
Otherwise we can do format, print line,
and we can say connected to database,
instead of returning nil nil,
we're going to return db.
>> Speaker 2: In a production app,
where do you typically store
your database credentials?
>> Melkey: Not in code,
for a connection string,
I would typically store
them using AWS secrets.
I actually am not a fan of doing.env
files, I think they are highly dangerous.
And so, I prefer to handle that burden
with a proven service, like AWS client,
secret manager, something like that,
and then you pull it down.
Dot env files are good for
something you're building locally,
I personally believe there's
more condom pros with them.
Okay, let's go back to the application and
actually start using this db,
so let's go ahead and
create Postgres database error.
I'm going to store.open, so
I bring in that store mod package
we just created, check that error.
So if error does not equal to nil,
let's go ahead and
return nil and the error, and
then in our application struck,
let's go ahead and create a new db field.
It's gonna be sql.db, like so
you can see pgdb is yelling at us or
the compilers killing in us.
We'll just put db as pg, db like so, so
now our application struct also
has access to our database, okay?
And this will work as is, but there is
one criteria that we need to be aware of,
and that is like loose connections and
open connection with the db, right?
So we want to make sure we close this,
now,
Go offers a pretty cool way
of handling things like this.
So if you go back to our main.go,
right underneath the arrow
does not equal to nil
where we declare app,
we can do app.db.close.
Now, if you look at look at this,
this will make no sense,
because the db will close before of
any ways of accessing it, right?
But what we can do is use the built
in defer function from go.
And this built in defer function tells our
application at the very end of execution,
everything else has been done,
then go ahead and call this function.
>> Melkey: So we defer it until the end,
hence the name, very good, so now,
with all of that,
we can nuke our running go instance.
If we do go run main.go, you should see
now that we are connected to our database,
and we are still running on port 8080.
So now we have a clear connection
between our back end and our database,
even though it's not obvious,
we only have this little print statement.
We will see in the next sub module
how we're actually going to load up
our database with tables.
How we're gonna explore them with psql,
and
actually explore data that we persist,
read and delete.